## 10. Trees

#### Notes
- Tree: A graph $G=(V,E)$ is called a tree if it's connected and contains no cycle as a subgraph  


#### 10.1
If `G` is a tree, then it contains no cycles, but adding an edge creates a cycle. If a graph has no cycles but adding an edge creates the cycle, then it's connected. Therefore the graph is a tree  


#### 10.2
The new edge `uv` forms a cycle with the path connecting `u` and `v` in the old graph. The rest of this cycle is a path between `u` and `v`  


#### 10.3
If `G` is a tree. There is at least one path between two nodes, since they are connected, but there cannot be two paths, otherwise we would have a cycle. If there is a unique path between each pair of nodes, then the graph is connected  


#### 10.4
Start the path from a node that has a degree of 1  


#### 10.5
Any edge has only one lord, otherwise they would have to start from different ends and then they would have two different ways to get to the king  


#### 10.6
If we start at any node `v`. If one of its branches contains more than half of all nodes, move along the edge and repeat. You will never backtrack, because this would mean that there is an edge whose deletion results in two connected components and both can contain more than half of the nodes  


#### 10.7
2 nodes have 1 unlabelled tree  
3 nodes have 1 unlabelled tree  
4 nodes have 2 unlabelled trees  
5 nodes have 3 unlabelled trees  


#### 10.8
`n` nodes have `n` stars and $n!/2$ paths  


#### 10.9
$(0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7)$  


#### 10.10
The number of possible father codes on `n` nodes is $n^{n-1}$  


#### 10.11
If we have a graph on ${1,\dots n}$ by connecting all pairs of nodes in the same column. If its done backwards, where we start with the last column, we get a procedure of growing a tree by adding a new node and an edge connecting it to an old node  


#### 10.12
a) Yes, a path  
b) Yes, a star  
c) No, since there are more zeros than ones in the first five elements of the tree  
