## Mathematical Statements
### Investigate!
- Troll 1 - Knight
- Troll 2 - Knave
- Troll 3 - Knight

## Predicates and Quantifiers
### Investigate!
1. Same as statement #2
2. Same as statement #1
3. It implies #1
4. It implies #2

### Exercises

#### 0.2.1
a) Not a statement.  
b) Atomic statement.  
c) Molecular statement.  


#### 0.2.2
a) Not a statement.  
b) Atomic statement.  
c) Molecular statement. Disjunction.  
d) Molecular statement. Biconditional.  
e) Molecular statement. Disjunction.  
f) Not a statement.  


#### 0.2.3
a) $P \lor Q$  
b) $P \implies \neg Q$  
c) Either Jack or Jill passed math.  
d) If both Jack and Jill did not passed math, then only Jill did.  
e) i - Jack also passed math.  
   ii - Jack also did not passed math.  


#### 0.2.4
a) Impossible to determine  
b) True  
c) True  
d) True  
e) Impossible to determine  
f) False  
g) True  


#### 0.2.5
a) False  
b) False  
c) True  
d) We do not know  
e) True  


#### 0.2.6
a) False  
b) True  
c) False  
d) True  


#### 0.2.7
a) Neither  
b) Contrapositive  
c) Converse  
d) Neither  
e) Neither  
f) Neither  


#### 0.2.8
a) If Oscar drinks milk, then he eats Chinese food.  
b) If Oscar does not drink milk, then he will not eat Chinese food.  
c) Yes, it's possible to be false only if the statement is false. The implication and the contrapositive are logically equivalent.  
d) No, cannot conclude anything, Oscar may or may not have eaten Chinese food. Since the conclusion is true, the hypotesis could be either true or false.  
e) Yes, that Oscar did not eat Chinese food. Since the statement is true, and the conclusion ($Q$) is false, we can assume that $P$ is false.  


#### 0.2.9
a) Converse  
b) Equivalent  
c) Converse  
d) Equivalent  
e) Equivalent  
f) Converse  
g) Converse  
h) Equivalent  


#### 0.2.10
a) If you lost weight, then you exercised.  
b) If you exercise, then you will lose weight.  
c) If you are American, then you are patriotic.  
d) If you are patriotic, then you are American.  
e) If a number is rational, then it is a real number.  
f) If a number is not even, then it is prime.  
g) If the Broncos play in the Super Bowl, then they will win the Super Bowl.  


#### 0.2.11
a) Equivalent to implication  
b) Equivalent to implication  
c) Equivalent to implication  
d) Converse  
e) Converse  
f) Converse  
g) Equivalent to implication  
h) Converse  
i) Equivalent to implication  
j) Converse  
k) Converse  
l) Converse  


#### 0.2.12
a) True  
b) Only odd numbers satisfy the predicate, so the statement is true.  
c) Even numbers do not satisfy the predicate, so the statement is false.  


#### 0.2.13
a) False  
b) The statement is false  
c) The statement is false  


#### 0.2.14
a) No matter what $n$ is, $P(n)$ is true.  
b) Give an element $n$ for which $P(n)$ is false.  
c) Give an element $n$ for which $P(n)$ is true.  
d) No matter what $n$ is, $P(n)$ is true.  


#### 0.2.15
a) False  
b) True  
c) True  
d) False  


#### 0.2.16
a) $\neg \exists x (E(x) \land O(x))$  
b) $\forall x (E(x) \implies O(x + 1))$  
c) $\exists x (P(x) \land E(x))$  
d) $\forall x \forall y \exists z (x < z < y \land y < z < x)$  
e) $\forall x \neg \exists y (x < y < x + 1)$  


#### 0.2.17
a) For every even number there is another that is 2 more than that number.  
b) The sine of every number is equal to some other number.  
c) Every number is equal to the sine of some other number.  
d) If the cube of any 2 numbers is the same then they are the same number.  


#### 0.2.18
Yes, the statement $\forall x P(x) \implies \exists x P(x)$ is always true. In this case, also the converse $\exists x P(x) \implies \forall x P(x)$ is always true.  


#### 0.2.19
a) True with $\R$. False with all odd numbers.  
b) True with $\N$. False with the Fibonacci sequence.  
c) True with $\N$. False with the set ${1, 1, 1, 1,}$.  


#### 0.2.20
a) Converse: "For all natural numbers $n$, if $n$ is solitary, then $n$ is prime". Contrapositive: "For all natural numbers $n$, if $n$ is not solitary, then $n$ is not prime."  
b) For all natural numbers $n$, if $n$ is solitary, then $n$ is not prime. To prove the statement is false, I'll have to prove that $n$ is prime.  
c) The statement is true since 10 is not prime. Therefore $P$ is false.  
d) It tells me that the original statement is true as well as the contrapositive. On the other hand the converse is false, since 8 is not prime.  
e) The set $P$ of prime numbers is a subset of the set $S$ of solitary numbers.  

